Reorganize multi-node instructions (#452)
timescale/docs.timescale.com-content: using-timescaledb/distributed-hypertables.md

> # Distributed Hypertables

Author: It's the title of the entire page, so I don't think needs an anchor?   None of the other similar pages seem to have an anchor at the top.

> # Distributed Hypertables

Reviewer: In that case it's probably fine. I don't know what we use to generate the pages.

>:WARNING: Distributed hypertables are currently in BETA and
are not yet meant for production use. For more information, please
[contact us][contact] or join the #multinode-beta channel in our 
[community Slack][slack].

Hypertables handle large amounts of data by breaking it up into
smaller pieces (chunks), allowing operations to execute
efficiently. When the amount of data is expected to be beyond what a
single machine can handle, you can distribute the data chunks over
several machines by using *distributed hypertables*.

Distributed hypertables are otherwise similar to normal hypertables, but
distributed hypertables will also spread a hypertable's chunks across multiple
data nodes.  Distributed hypertables also typically use an additional "space
partitioning" of data (e.g., by server or container ID, by device ID, by ticker
symbol, etc.) so that an individual time interval is spread over all data nodes
(although this is not required).  Thus to create a distribted hypertable, you

> need to have added at least one data node before starting.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

> Thus to create a distributed hypertable, you need to have added at least one data node before starting. Distributed hypertables are typically also partitioned by an additional column, such as server or container ID, device ID, or ticker symbol. It is not strictly required, but can improve performance since individual time intervals are spread over several data nodes.

);

SELECT create_distributed_hypertable('conditions', 'time', 'location');
```

>:WARNING: If there are no data nodes available, you will get an error
>when executing `create_distributed_hypertable` and the distributed
>hypertable will not be created.

This creates a multi-dimensional distributed hypertable
partitioned along `time` and `location`.
You can now insert data into the distributed hypertable and
it will automatically be partitioned on the available data nodes
by using the provided space partition. You
can find more information for how to work with data in hypertables in the
section [Creating Hypertables][creating-hypertables].

### Changing the Number of Data Nodes for a Distributed Hypertable [](changing-data-nodes)

By default, distributed hypertables will use all available data nodes,
but individual data nodes can be added and removed from already
created distributed hypertables using
[`add_data_node`][add_data_node]/[`attach_data_node`][attach_data_node] and
[`detach_data_node`][detach_data_node].

For example, if you add a new data node to the distributed database,
it will not automatically be
added to existing distributed hypertables, so it is necessary to attach

> it explicitly.

Reviewer: Suggestion to switch the order to make it flow better. The fact that data nodes are not added to existing hypertables is important, but comes very late and might be missed. IMHO, it is better to stress the point early.
> By default, distributed hypertables will use all available data nodes when created, but if you add new data nodes to the distributed database, they are *not* automatically added to existing distributed hypertables and you need to explicitly attach them using [`attach_data_node`][attach_data_node].

```sql

> SELECT add_data_node('node3', host => 'dn3.example.com');
> 
> SELECT attach_data_node('node3', hypertable => 'conditions');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT add_data_node('node3', host => 'dn3.example.com');
SELECT attach_data_node('node3', hypertable => 'conditions');
```

```

Once the data node has been attached, any new chunks will also be
distributed to the hypertable on the new data node.

> 

Reviewer: Seems repetitive, you can probably remove it.

Author: I think it adds some good information, so probably will leave.

In a similar way, if you want to remove a data node from a distributed
hypertable, you can use [`detach_data_node`][detach_data_node].

```sql
SELECT detach_data_node('node1', hypertable => 'conditions');
```

Note that you cannot detach a data node that still holds data for the
hypertable. However, if the distributed hypertable is subject to a
retention policy, it is possible to block new data on a data node and
wait until the existing data on the data node moves outside the
retention window. This is achieved by first blocking new chunks on the

> data node:

Reviewer: We should probably have a link to the data retention section and might have to add more about the steps there (as well). Not sure if the blocking is covered in the data retention section.

```sql
SELECT block_new_chunks('node1', hypertable => 'conditions');
```

> This will prohibit new data from being stored on the data node. Once
> the data node's data is outside the retention window,
> [`drop_chunks`][drop_chunks] can be used to delete the data on the data
> node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will prevent data from being added or updated on the data node. Once
the data node's data is outside the retention window,
[`drop_chunks`][drop_chunks] can be used to delete the data on the data
node.
```
